# markov-passwords
Generates password phrases using markov chains

This is for generating wordlists of phrases with markov chains.Do NOT use this to generate passwords for actual use as they will be inherently insecure. This program is designed to break weak passwords made from common phrases.
  
### Usage
```
markov.py [-h] -i INPUT_FILE [-o OUTPUT_FILE] [-n NUMBER_OF_TIMES] [-l MAX_LENGTH]
```
-h - display help/useage message and exit  
-i INPUT_FILE - Text file to read in to generate phrases  
-o OUTPUT_FILE - File to write phrases to. If this flag is not used it is written to stdout  
-n NUMBER_OF_TIMES - Number of phrases to generate. Defaults to 1 if nothing is specified  
-l MAX_LENGTH - How many words should a phrase contain. If the phrase reaches an end of a line before reaching the target length, it will be shorter.  

### Example

Here is an exmple of it being used with the text of "Alice in Wonderland"  

```
./markov.py -i alice.txt -n 10 -l 4
changetheblowshurt
offerhimintoits
before."Thingsareyou
safeinatone
nightandsometimesshe
ceiling,anddishes.The
alonginafight
shorttime,shedid
producingfromherhedgehog.
on.
```
### Dependencies

python3  
argparse  
numpy  
random  

### Motivation

I wrote this program because I found that many common passwords are just phrases. However, I could not find any good way to break such passwords without doing a brute force or combining every word in a list with every other word in a list. This however generates lots of phrases do not make any sense. Even generating two or three word combinations isn't really practical on relatively short wordlists. This program tries to make only phrases that make some sort of sense based on the text.

### Tips

I recommend preparsing the text before running it through this program with tr, sed, or awk to make it how you want it. Here are a couple of commands that I have found useful to prepare the text:  
Convert a file to lowercase

```
cat FILE.TXT | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]' > NEW_FILE.TXT
```
Capitalize the first letter of each word
```
cat FILE.TXT | sed -e "s/\b\(.\)/\u\1/g" > NEW_FILE.TXT
```
Remove all characters besides a letter, number, space, or newline
```
cat FILE.TXT | tr -dc '[[:alnum:] \n]' > NEW_FILE.TXT
```
  
I would also recommend sorting and removing any duplicates from the list generated by the program.

```
cat UNSORTED.TXT | sort | uniq > SORTED.TXT
```
